In lead up to my first journal entry I decided to spend my Overwatch time this week building up my abilities with Tank Heroes and seeing what I could accomplish and what big picture takeaways I could gain.  My overall plan with these journal entries is to use each one to explore a different fundamental aspect of the game. I will do this by detailing my experiences with each different Hero class (Tank, Damage, Healer) in each different entry. It works out well that there’s three hero classes and three journal entry assignments. 
As I stated previous, I decided to focus my gameplay on utilizing the Tank heroes. I chose the Tank class because it’s the type of hero that I personally feel the most comfortable with and will make for a good starting point for this series of assignments.  My first game of the week I decided to play as Reinhardt, who is a strong tank with a massive hammer that has a protective shield that can be used to organize and protect your team. Reinhardt has always been a popular tank because of his defensive abilities with his shield, while also being able to deliver deadly damage up close with his hammer. This first game started out a little chaotic and my team had trouble organizing a sweeping attack.  We were playing on the map Hanamura which has many tight choke points that can be hard to push through as a team without getting any team members “picked”. Getting “picked” is where the enemy team kills a member of your team before your team begins to attack. This often leads to your team attack failing because they’re down a player or can be a big waste of time as your team has to wait for the picked teammate to respawn.  However, since I was Reinhardt, I was able to protect my team with my shield, so no one was picked.  Playing as a tank such as Reinhardt is more about game awareness and good timing than it is about high-skill plays.  Our team was able to take the first control point and move onto attacking the second. Each team is given an opportunity to attack and defend both control points in different rounds and you score points by successfully taking the control points. A control point is a designated target area that you must stand in while no enemies are on the point.  A large factor in winning a game of Overwatch is teamwork. Teamwork is fundamentally the most important aspect of Overwatch. If a team is less skilled but works together better than the enemy, they can often win. Being able to organize and effectively manage your team is an amazing skill that Overwatch hardwires into your brain. A player that isn’t willing to cooperate will quickly realize their error by repeatedly losing games.  Our team ended up stalling on the second control point and was unable to fully take the point. In team chat I asked if anyone would be willing to switch heroes to give a better matchup against the enemy. One team member volunteered and we decided that if they were to switch to McCree we would be able to synergize our to ultimate abilities and possibly take the point.  This switch payed off and we ended up combing our ultimate abilities. I used my Earthshatter to knock down the enemy team and then from a high point the McCree on my team used his Dead-Eye to instant shot each player on the enemy team. Our team was then able to take the point and secure a winning score of 2 – 0.  
This one example from today highlights the importance of being able to work as a team and also being open to trying out new heroes to create an advantage and then follow through and win.
