For my third journal entry I’m continuing my plan of doing a separate journal entry for each of hero class in Overwatch (Tank, Damage, Healer). So, for this entry I’ll be playing healers in competitive play and detailing my experiences. 
I have not played a healer in a long time because I usually focus on my skills as a tank player. Once I joined a game, I decided to play Brigitte because she is more of a hybrid between a healer and a tank and she has a lot of awesome abilities.  
The first game I played was Hanamura.
I like Hanamura because it’s a really cool looking map, but it is one of the 2 capture point maps and this map ends up resulting in ties a lot during competitive matches which I’m not a very big fan of. My team started off on attack and we a well balanced team comp.  I was able to help my teams two tanks out a lot because Brigitte can almost act like a tank. I would team up with them and double team one of their tanks. While I would attack the other tanks I also passively heal my team which can help us push through Hanamura’s tight choke point. I used Brigitte’s shield stun to stun the enemy Reinhardt in the choke and then my team was able to follow up and eliminate him. We then rushed to the capture point and were able to clean up the rest of the enemy team. Now that we captured the first point the spawns shifted and we now had to make our way to the second capture point and take that.  The enemy team switched to a lot of long rang damage heroes and it was hard for my as Brigitte to stay alive and now get picked off because of her lack of mobility. I decided to switch to Lucio who is much faster and can wall skate.  We were then able to push the high ground and I used my crowd control ability as Lucio to push the other team off the high point. This allowed us to drop down onto the enemy team and take the point. We executed our attack really fast and there was a lot of time left which is good if we end up going to overtime. However, someone on the other team was so frustrated that they decided to leave the game.  In competitive play leaving a game ruins the entire match and because its then 5 v 6. So after the first person left the other team members have to stay in the game for two more minutes and after that they can leave without penalty. Since there was little chance they could beat us down a player they all left and the match was concluded.  
	Although this game got cut short, I really enjoyed my time as a healer, more than I thought I would.  Being a healer is more about good positioning and strategy than it is about technical aiming skills. That maybe why it gets a bad rep among some parts of the Overwatch community but it definitely a position that takes a lot of skill, just a different type.
