For this week’s journal entry, I continued my plan of trying a different class of hero and learning and improving that specific set of skills. Last entry I worked on my Tank play and this week I played Damage heroes.  

The Damage hero class is the largest of any specific hero class with 17 unique heroes.  These heroes’ range in difficulty level and playstyle.  I started this week off by trying to use different resources to first learn about each hero and then trying to play them.   The first resource that anyone who is thinking about playing Overwatch should look at is the official Overwatch Wiki. This contains detailed analysis on each hero, map and meta.  It also keeps a growing library about the games lore and backstory which is a big draw for some players. Being able to personally connect and learn about each hero makes the game feel richer and more immersive.  This personal connection with Overwatch is parallel with Gee’s principle of Identity.  Gee explains Identity in games as building emotional connections with the learner and among learners.  By building an emotional connection to players through the different heroes Overwatch is able to create a sense of caring that helps players continue to learn and improve their skills.  

For my gameplay this week I queued as a damage hero and began to wait. Since each game has only 4 damage players, two on each team and damage heroes are the most popular in the Overwatch player base sometimes there are long wait times to get into a game. However, Overwatch takes advantage of this by allowing you to play death matches or training range while you wait. Players then are able to practice/warm up before games and also experiment with different heroes.  I haven’t played a damage hero in a while, so it was very helpful to practice some shooting and movement mechanics while I waited.  Once I joined the game, I immediately realized I was pretty out of practice and some of my team members were a little frustrated in game chat.  Once I got my bearings and used the on-demand hero ability feature I was able to see exactly what my hero did without having to stop playing. This helped turn around the game and we ended up winning. One big thing in Overwatch I briefly mentioned earlier was the “game meta”. The meta is the type of strategy that is currently deemed the best. By strategy I mean team composition, where a certain group of heroes are currently better than others and when played together result in stronger chances of winning. This meta shifts constantly as they add new heroes and patch others to either nerf them (make them weaker) or buff them (make them stronger). A great resource for learning about the meta is the Overwatch Community. The community is just all the content creators, professional players and resources like the Overwatch Wiki. One of my favorite places to learn and get better is a YouTube channel called YourOverwatch which makes high quality videos about improving your skills and learning about different Metas and heroes. With almost a million subscribers on the main channel it is a very popular among Overwatch players.  Utilizing these community resources is one of the best ways to improve yourself at Overwatch and is a big reason so many people still play 4+ years after the game was released.
